this video is much less a critique much
less a book review than it is a set of
warnings about problematic aspects of
the approach to veganism animal rights
ecological politics in a book that I
think is relatively famous relatively
influenced at the moment called so
appleís that is co-written by sue
Donaldson and professor welcome welcome
this book approaches the issues from a
perspective that's almost 180 degrees
opposite to my own it's astounding to me
that someone can share my fundamental
concerns about animal rights veganism
ecology and yet can have an approach
politically that is so totally radically
incompatible to my own so as such it's a
very stimulating and even somewhat
shocking book for me to read to give you
an immediate sense of why this is so
different from my own approach this book
begins with questions of how human
beings take care of domesticated animals
pets and those concerns are very much
framed in terms of a citizen's rights
approach to political science citizens
rights citizens responsibilities so to
give an example this book is very much
concerned with the scenario of who will
pay for the veterinary care or the
medical care for dogs and cats
if a family owns dogs and cats if there
are pet owners but that family is too
poor to actually pay for the veterinary
care of these animals so the reality is
of course in our world currently people
who are not wealthy enough to pay for a
complex surgery for their dog or cat
will currently just have that dog or cat
killed so if you are approaching this in
terms of the rubric of citizens rights
if you're looking at animals as citizens
that have the right to live in the
context of their being domesticated
animals household pets then you're
looking at whose responsibility is it to
pay for their medical care etc so this
is a set of consents ear concerns that
he works out logically however the
logical extension of this rapidly
becomes absurd the book is genuinely
concerned with the status of rats and
snakes
within cities within our civilization
within our culture and interestingly it
blames the legacy of the Christian
religion for giving people very negative
view and wrath of rats and snakes but
these are not inherently evil animals
and the government should educate the
public so that we have a more
compassionate and helpful view towards
rats and snakes and again it extends the
rights of citizens partially to rats and
snakes so obviously it is not saying
that rats and snakes should have
driver's licenses it's not saying that
dogs should have the right to vote but
this is a logical and coherent approach
that breaks up the paradigm of human
citizenship and then tries to in a
thorough and consistent way apply that
to the status of animals within our
society and that is part of the problem
my opinion is thinking of animals as
members of our society I'm a vegan you
may be surprised to hear me say that
stick with the video for another couple
minutes and you'll see exactly why I say
that this trajectory that begins with a
concern about how we care for and how we
pay for caring for pets as nervous
society ultimately leads to a view that
animals as members of society have a
right and even an obligation to
contribute their labor to our society so
examples include that it's justifiable
to ride horses for horses to provide the
service of human beings riding on them
because these horses benefit they have
the benefits of citizens including I
guess the government providing paying
for veterinary care or etc but from the
other hand they're also supposed to be
contributing to a society supposed of
obligations our society like citizens
and most observed this even extends to a
justification for human beings
eating chicken eggs so chickens the
labor of chickens the exploitation of
the labor of chickens the contribution
of chickens as workers to our society
can include chickens laying eggs and
human beings eating those eggs as part
of this social contract this view of
chickens as citizens in our
xiety so what started with a seemingly
harmless and perfectly logical and
perfectly vegan view of animal rights
and a political science approach to to
animal rights in 2016
ends up embracing what seemed to me
absurdities that are in fact anti vegan
and even anti animal rights now again
for me this is especially kind of
intellectually stimulating although I
met it's also laughable I did laugh out
loud reading this stuff keeping it real
um this book really begins with and puts
tremendous emphasis on the status of
domesticated animals as household pets
which I do not I regard the
domestication of animals for human
entertainment as itself immoral and on
vegan I think that taking a wild animal
and reducing it to being a plaything and
a toy and a decoration is itself already
a form of animal exploitation that I do
not approve of it's normalized
culturally in our society but if we're
in a question why culturally we think
rats and snakes are evil maybe we could
question why we think it's acceptable to
castrate a dog so that the dog will not
display the behaviors of a wolf to force
the dog to decorate your carpet and play
with your children and be an amenable
member of your household those are also
cultural assumptions and now in fact the
assumptions we have about snakes are not
completely unfounded the problems we
have with rats are not totally pseudo
scientific rats eat grain rats eat
almost everything human beings eat if
you let the rat population or the
cockroach cockroach population go
unchecked in a modern city you have all
kinds of problems if you let the rat
population go unchecked on a grain farm
a perfectly vegan grain farm you're not
gonna have a grain farm for too long you
know growing wheat involves killing rats
in involved in Canada involves killing a
remarkable array of our native species
and that is very problematic and I think
the ethics of that are worth examining
but we actually can't examine those
ethical issues or best practices under
the rubric of extending citizenship
rights to animals
which again I'm not here to ridicule it
but that is the project that Kim Luca
and Donaldson undertake in this book so
appleís and it's even in the title ZOA
Paulus this is extending the polity
extending political citizenship rights
to animals as the kind of thoroughgoing
intellectual experiment or as a proposal
for a radical new approach to ecology
animal rights vegan politics etc my
approach instead very much begins with
habitat conservation and the status of
wild animals and of them not needing our
care their status as independent from
human society or as independent as
possible from human society and in this
book that's very much left as the last
and the least concern it's almost a kind
of embarrassing footnote or appendix to
an approach to animal rights that is
very much centered on it again this is
my opinion is my mount analysis I feel
their paradigm is to look at household
pets such as dogs and cats and their
rights as citizens and then to extend it
from there and then we kind of have a
footnote for animals in the wild my
approach is 108 degrees the opposite I
believe the the dignified lives of
animals whether we're talking about
lions or or wolves is to look at how
they can live in the wild I do think the
human beings have a tremendously
important role in 21st century partly
because we need to maintain national
parks nature reserves conservation areas
we need to prevent our fellow human
beings from cutting down all the trees
if there's gonna be a forest we do need
a role for government for and for
charity for organized oversight of these
conservation areas etc however the lives
of those animals
I feel profoundly are not ours to govern
or we have to govern them to a minimum
extent yes we have to intervene if a
species is about to go extinct
we may have to intervene if there's a
sudden disease outbreak within the
National Park and a population males be
wiped out there are all kinds of reasons
for intervention one species getting
overpopulated and another is getting
underpopulated
one type of plants is disappearing
because there are too many of a certain
type of insects yes that's why I use the
wildlife management paradigm I don't
talk about nature red in tooth and Fang
I don't talk about real untamed
wilderness in the 21st century human
beings will have a role in maintaining
those parks but the lives of animals I
feel are not as castrated you know
medicated playthings modified you know
literally declawed and defamed to be
human pets and I would approach this and
absolutely the opposite way were for me
chapter one the first the center of the
main point is to talk about the
relationship between human society and
the wild again for me that is
intermediated by wildlife management and
then to talk about if we're going to
talk about citizenship at all I think I
would probably talk about how irrelevant
it is to this question that
interestingly the whole paradigm
basically since classical liberalism
basically since the rewriting of
constitutions and the rewriting of
economics textbooks under classical
liberalism the whole approach how to how
we conceptualize politics has very much
marginalized and left as a matter of
minor concern if it's mentioned at all
the question of national parks of
conservation areas of nature preserves
that's not what our constitutions are
about that's not what the role the
rights and responsibilities and role of
the citizen are about and it's also not
how the rights and role responsibilities
of the government are defined and I do
not know of any country in the world
maybe there's an exception where the
head of the National Park Service is an
elected position you know you may elect
the mayor you may elect the sheriff you
may elect a whole array of specific jobs
you may in your country elect the
Surgeon General who's in charge of
medicine you may elect you know all of
these special roles I don't know any
country in the world where the
management of national parks the
conservation of nature the protection of
you know sometimes very iconic species
whether they're bears or elephants you
know down to the smallest insects and
snails I dunno know any country where
that was taken seriously enough to be an
elected position
this is a sign of how alien and minor
these concerns have been and then you
know for me I would work backwards
compared to chemicals book here compared
to xalapa less and I really see the
whole role of domesticated animals as
something our society is in a transition
toward abolishing I don't have to preach
that we need to abolish the labor of
horses it's already happening you know
due to technological advancement I don't
even feel I have to preach the abolition
of chicken eggs because science has
conveniently proven that chicken eggs
are tremendously unhealthy they're
unnecessary unhealthy food that we we
should eliminate from the human diet
partly just cause of cholesterol and
many other reasons um yes I would like
to see the complete abolition of factory
farming I don't think I'm gonna see that
in my lifetime but of course veganism
has this aspiration to one day form a
society somewhere on some scale where
there is absolutely no you know mass
exploitation of mass slaughtering of
animals
professor chemica has made many positive
contributions to the field I feel I
should note that he really has
repeatedly raised the question of the
difficulty of the connection between
conventional left-wing politics labor
based the labor union centered left-wing
politics and any kind of animal rights
paradigm vegan paradigm or even
ecological paradigm that's actually a
really important line of inquiry and if
you have experience in politics wherever
you are in the world but I assume the
Western world Germany Canada United
States what have you if you ever point
out those difficulties where you have to
say look the left-wing
just does not make a place for us as
ecological or vegan or animal rights
people and vice versa the connection
from us reaching out to them is also
pretty weak so how is this really gonna
work very often you get defensive
frankly you people get angry people get
hostile and they don't want to think
about how problematic that pairing
really is there's just a cultural
assumption that there's something
inherently left-wing about ecological
conservation or ecological concern and
that the right wing is the inevitable
enemy of whether it's biodiversity
conservation or veganism or
what-have-you
now you know if you live in the United
States believe me I'm not about to
preach to you that the Republican Party
is a great place for vegan activism I
can't say in England that the
Conservative Party is either but kinloch
a-- I think has really made a very
important contribution in pointing out
just how problematic I think he tends to
focus on since the 1960s the
redefinition left early 1960s I don't
maybe he's also written about earlier
periods I'm sorry that's just my
recollection of his work but you know in
terms of cultural political legal
reality of what the left-wing is just
how poorly suited it is for vegans and
people who are sincerely interested in
ecology to get involved with and you'll
vice-versa we have to say so critically
I don't know any vegans who are highly
motivated today to try to infiltrate the
labor unions who think wow if we want to
advance veganism the way to do it is to
try to co-opt labor unions not at all I
know maybe back in the 1960s or
something somebody did think that so
there's actually a lack of any one
positive reaching to work with the other
in both directions so I do think
professor chemica as someone who has
made many important contributions has
raised important questions for us to
consider so op Ellis I think is a very
deeply flawed book I think that it does
in a rigorous logical way follow up on a
set of thematic concerns I think it is
completely logical for this citizenship
paradigm to look at animals as members
of our society and then conclude they
are the right to work and then conclude
the human beings have an obligation to
exploit them to exploit their labor as
if their status as voiceless citizens
then our society it's logical I can
recognize
why he starts with one set of problems
and comes to this set of solutions I
also think it's bad and it's immoral and
it's wrong in this video now past 50
minutes I have not discussed each and
every issue raised in the book it would
be a much longer video if I did I think
that what I'm doing here is giving you a
set of warnings that are really useful
in the same way that Nicola gist might
give you a set of warnings about air
pollution the use of cars or anything
else without really giving you a
complete explanation of how cars work or
how power generation relies on air
pollution I think is useful in this kind
of context to just give you a select
group of issues to to whet your
skepticism it is possible that within
the pages of this tome you find other
insights that are of real value for me
it is largely a reflection on how
ill-suited the whole tradition of
Western political science is divisionism
in the same way that kinloch I made this
contribution in reflecting on how
ill-suited the whole left-wing tradition
is to veganism so that also for me is a
a somewhat stimulating parallel to
reflect on